hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions here's a
fun puzzle that's been spreading around
the internet I wanted to make a video to
present the correct answer I also wanted
to show another interpretation if you
pay very careful attention to all of the
details in the puzzle I believe there is
a real answer to this puzzle that
involves higher level and complicated
mathematics can you figure it out give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching the video for a solution
[Music]
so how can we solve the system of
equations we'll start out by solving
each equation in turn the first equation
has three red balloons equal to 30 since
10 plus 10 plus 10 is equal to 30 we can
solve that a single red balloon is equal
to 10
we'll use this value to solve the second
equation we have a red balloon plus a
pair of green balloons plus a pair of
green balloons is equal to 18 the red
balloon is equal to 10 and then we have
two of the pairs of green balloons and
this all equals 18 we can then solve
that a pair of green balloons is equal
to 4 we then have a pair of green
balloons - a pair of blue balloons equal
to 2 since the pair of green balloons is
4 we can then solve that the pair of
blue balloons has to be equal to 2 so
now we need to evaluate a single blue
balloon plus a single red balloon
multiplied by a single green balloon how
can we do that well if this puzzle is
about counting balloons which is a
reasonable assumption then we can take
the single value to be half of the pair
so a single green balloon will be equal
to half of 4 which is 2 and a single
blue balloon will be equal to 1 we then
substitute in these values we have 1
plus 10 multiplied by 2 this also
presents a landmine for some people you
have to remember to do 10 times 2 which
equals 20 first because of the order of
operations so we have 1 plus 20 and that
equals 21 now this is the most commonly
accepted answer to this puzzle but I
think the real answer should encapsulate
all of the visual details so here are
some key details I think we should
consider if you look at the pair of
green balloons and the pair of blue
balloon
the green and blue pair balloons are
facing different directions also for all
of the balloons the arrows on the
balloons are used for the strings so
these arrows bring to mind Canute's up
arrow notation which suggests that we
should be considering exponentiation and
tetration and before I explain how that
changes the answer I want to say don't
tell me that this is overthinking the
puzzle they keep saying that you need to
be a genius to solve these puzzles so I
don't think it's beyond the realm of
these puzzles to use higher level
mathematics so how does this affect the
final answer well first consider the
pair of green balloons if we let a
single green balloon be represented by
the variable X this translates into X
left superscript of X is equal to 4 how
do we interpret this notation well a up
arrow up arrow n is equal to a left
superscript of n which is equal to a
power tower or we have a race to the
power of a raise to the power of a a
total of n minus 1 times this translates
into X raised to the power of X raised
to the power of X where we have a power
Tower of X terms so how do we solve this
well I don't know the general method for
solving this kind of equation but for
this particular equation we can make a
lucky guess notice that two left
superscript of 2 is equal to 2 to the
power of 2 which equals 4
in other words x equals 2 satisfies this
equation so we figured out that the
value of a single green balloon is equal
to 2 now we did all this work and we
ultimately ended up with exactly the
same value for a single green balloon as
before so I think that's a fun
coincidence now let's use this
interpretation for the pair of blue
balloons if we let a single blue balloon
be
noted by the variable Y this visual
puzzle would translate into y ^ y is
equal to two how can we solve this
equation will use the Lambert W function
which is the inverse of the function x
times e to the power of x if x times e
to the power of x is equal to z we then
have x is equal to w of z we don't know
its explicit form but if we have
something like x times e to the power of
x we can take its inverse to solve for x
so how does that help us solve the
equation y do the power of y is equal to
2 well the first thing we'll do is we'll
rewrite the equation it can be rewritten
as e to the power of Ln Y raised to the
power of e ^ ln y this is because e to
the power of ln y is equal to y now
we'll use exponentiation rules to
simplify this as e raised to the power
of L + y times e raised to the power of
Ln Y we can now take the natural log of
both sides so that we get the natural
log of Y times the quantity e to the
power of Ln Y is equal to the natural
log of 2 so now notice a pattern in this
equation if we let a be equal to the
natural log of Y we have a times e to
the power of a equal to the natural log
of 2 so we can use the Lambert W
function here to solve for a we have
that a is equal to w of the natural log
of 2 now we'll go back and substitute
that a is equal to the natural log of Y
and then we'll take e to the power of
both sides so we can solve that y is
equal to e to the power of W of the
natural log of 2 which is approximately
one point five six note that I
calculated this in Wolfram Alpha
so I calculated W of natural log of 2 as
product log of the natural log of 2 so
this means we have the value for a
single blue balloon being equal to
e ^ w of the natural log of 2 which is
approximately one point five six so we
now take this value for the single blue
balloon and we then need to evaluate a
blue balloon plus a red balloon
multiplied by a green balloon so we
substitute in our values and we get this
is approximately equal to 21 point five
six and I believe this is the real
answer to this puzzle did you figure it
out thanks for watching this video these
math videos inspire and build confidence
for people around the world and they've
already accumulated over a hundred
million views I believe is society truly
valued mathematics we'd have millions of
subscribers and billions of views please
help this goal you can subscribe for
free to get the newest videos please
watch and share all the mind your
decisions videos that's one of the best
ways for people to discover this channel
you can email me a puzzle or math topic
presh at mind your decisions calm you
can also support this channel
financially by checking out my books
which are great for gifts they're linked
in the video description and you can
support on patreon to earn exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support